.\" Manpage for screen-generator
.TH SCREEN-GENERATOR 1 "2016-07-31" "screen-generator v0.5"
.SH NAME

screen-generator, screeng \- generates screen configuration files and launches screen by providing a chain of commands or a window configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS

.B screen-generator 
[\c
.I COMMAND CHAIN\c
] [\c
.B -e\c
] [\c
.B -x 
.I X\c
] [\c
.B -y
.I Y\c
] [\c
.BR -d\c
]
.B 
.I DESTINATION PATH
] [\c
.BR -m
.I WINDOW NUMBER\c
] [\c
.BR -o
.I OPTIONS\c
] [\c
.BR -v\c
] [\c
.BR -V\c
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Screen-generator
generates screen configuration files by providing window commands and window configuration.

It can for instance generate any screenrc defining a grid of 
.B X
lines and 
.B Y
columns using
.B -x
and
.B -y
flags.

.B COMMAND CHAIN
specifies window commands. It has the format 'cmd1; cmd2; cm3' (e.g "bash;watch ls;watch lsblk;tcpdum").

A command can be expanded to all matching file by using the 
.B +
sign instead of 
.B *
sign.
.B screen-generator 'vim +.txt'
will generate a screen with a window for each file matching *.text.

.B screen-generator
will guess which grid is the most adequate and assigned to windows without command the default shell
.I $SHELL.

If no command chain is given, 
.B screen-generator
becomes interactive. The command chain is specified by entering each command, pressing <\c
.I ENTER\c
> and <\c
.I CTRL+D\c
> at the end of the command chain.

The interactive mode can be prevented to appear by using flag
.B -N 

To execute screen directly, use the option
.B -e\
\.

  
Path of the new screen configuration file can be specified using 
.B -d DESTINATION PATH
\.
If the flag 
.B -d
is not set, the location becomes 
.I /tmp/screenrc-XxY-COMMAND-CHAIN

The Nth command in the chain gives the command of the Nth window counting from top lef to bottom right, line by line.

If no command chain nor screen size is given, 
.B screen-generator
will chose the configuration depending on the terminal size. Default column and line numbers can be set by assigning a value to
.B DEFAULT_NUMBER_OF_LINES
and/or
.B DEFAULT_NUMBER_OF_COLUMNS in 
.IR /usr/bin/screen-generator .


.SH OPTION

.TP
.B -e
Execute screen directly.
.TP
.B -x 
.I X 
Specify the number of lines. This will overwrite the value guessed if command chain is given.
.TP
.B -y
.I Y
Specify the number of columns. This will overwrite the value guessed if command chain is given.
.TP
.B -d DESTINATION PATH 
Specify the destination of the generated configuration file (\c
.I /tmp/.screenrc-XxY-COMMAND-CHAIN 
if not mentioned)
.TP
.B -m WINDOW NUMBER 
Move the cursor to 
.BR WINDOW
.BR NUMBER .
Windows are numbered from top-left to bottom right, line by lines. The cursor is set to the first editor specified by
.B $EDITOR
in 
.I /usr/bin/screen-generator 
and then 
.B $SHELL
if not specifies
.TP
.B -o  OPTIONS
Add lines to the screen configuration file. OPTION CHAIN is a chain in the format "OPTION_1;...;OPTION_N". 
.TP
.B -h, --help
Display help
.TP
.B -v
Activate debug mode
.TP
.B -V
Display version and quit

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
.B screen-generator "watch ls /tmp;lsblk;tcpdump"  
Print a screen configuration file with the commands watch ls /tmp, lsblk, tcpdump and a additional shell define by $SHELL.

.TP
.B screen-generator 'transmission-cli /root/+.torrent' -e 
Launch a screen with as much windows as the number of file matching the pattern /root/*.torrent. 
.B +
asks for an expansion of the command to all matching files.

.TP
.B screen-generator -n -x 5 -y 3 -d $HOME/.screenrc
Replace the default configuration file of screen by a newly generated one decribing a 5x3 grid and insert commands in interactive mode
.TP
.B screen-generator -t -x 5 -y 5 -N
Print a 5x5 screen configuration file with shell only (
.B -N prevents the interactive mode)


.SH FILES

.I /tmp/screenrc-XxY-COMMAND-CHAIN
Generated configuration file.

.SH VARIABLES

The following variables are defined in 
.I /usr/bin/screen-generator  

.B DEFAULT_EDITOR  
define the editor so that the cursor can automatically move when it is contained in a command chain. Set to vim as default

.B DEFAULT_NUMBER_OF_COLUMNS 
Set to null inititally.

.B DEFAULT_NUMBER_OF_LINES
Set to null inititally.

.B DEFAULT_OPTIONS 
Option to be inserted in the screen. Set to null initially.

.B DEFAULT_SHORTCUTS
Shortcuts can be changed by modifying this varialbe. They are initiated at:

.RS
.nf
.B "Ctrl+j"\c
Move to bottom window
.B "Ctrl+k"\c
Move to above window
.B "Ctrl+l"\c
Move to the right window
.B "Ctrl+h"\c
Move to left window
.B "Ctrl+y"\c
quit screen
.B "Ctrl+s"\c
split horizontally
.B "Ctrl+v"\c
split vertically
.SH SEE ALSO  
.BR screen
(1)

.SH AUTHOR

Any question, suggestions or remark can be sent at `jean.yvan.tissot[at]gmail.com`. Bugs can be reported on `https://github.com/boddhissattva/screen-generator`.

.SH VERSION

screen-generator v0.5
